.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Yubico AB. All rights reserved.
.\" Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style
.\" license that can be found in the LICENSE file.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: June 27 2019 $
.Dt FIDO2-TOKEN 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm fido2-token
.Nd find and manage a FIDO 2 authenticator
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl CRS
.Op Fl d
.Ar device
.Nm
.Fl D
.Fl i
.Ar cred_id
.Ar device
.Nm
.Fl I
.Op Fl cd
.Op Fl k Ar rp_id Fl i Ar cred_id
.Ar device
.Nm
.Fl L
.Op Fl dr
.Op Fl k Ar rp_id
.Op device
.Nm
.Fl V
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
manages a FIDO 2 authenticator.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl C Ar device
Changes the PIN of
.Ar device .
The user will be prompted for the current and new PINs.
.It Fl D Fl i Ar cred_id Ar device
Deletes the resident credential specified by
.Ar cred_id
from
.Ar device ,
where
.Ar cred_id
is the credential's base64-encoded id.
The user will be prompted for the PIN.
This feature is only available on authenticators with credential
management support.
.It Fl I Ar device
Retrieves information on
.Ar device .
.It Fl I Fl c Ar device
Retrieves resident credential metadata from
.Ar device .
The user will be prompted for the PIN.
This feature is only available on authenticators with credential
management support.
.It Fl I Fl k Ar rp_id Fl i Ar cred_id Ar device
Prints the credential id (base64-encoded) and public key
(PEM encoded) of the resident credential specified by
.Ar rp_id
and
.Ar cred_id ,
where
.Ar rp_id
is a UTF-8 relying party id, and
.Ar cred_id
is a base64-encoded credential id.
The user will be prompted for the PIN.
This feature is only available on authenticators with credential
management support.
.It Fl L
Produces a list of authenticators found by the operating system.
.It Fl L Fl r Ar device
Produces a list of relying parties with resident credentials on
.Ar device .
The user will be prompted for the PIN.
This feature is only available on authenticators with credential
management support.
.It Fl L Fl k Ar rp_id Ar device
Produces a list of resident credentials corresponding to
relying party
.Ar rp_id
on
.Ar device .
The user will be prompted for the PIN.
This feature is only available on authenticators with credential
management support.
.It Fl R
Performs a reset on
.Ar device .
.Nm
will NOT prompt for confirmation.
.It Fl S
Sets the PIN of
.Ar device .
The user will be prompted for the PIN.
.It Fl V
Prints version information.
.It Fl d
Causes
.Nm
to emit debugging output on
.Em stderr .
.El
.Pp
If a
.Em tty
is available,
.Nm
will use it to prompt for PINs.
Otherwise,
.Em stdin
is used.
.Pp
.Nm
exits 0 on success and 1 on error.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr fido2-assert 1 ,
.Xr fido2-cred 1
.Sh CAVEATS
The actual user-flow to perform a reset is outside the scope of the
FIDO2 specification, and may therefore vary depending on the
authenticator.
Yubico authenticators do not allow resets after 5 seconds from
power-up, and expect a reset to be confirmed by the user through
touch within 30 seconds.
