.\" Copyright (c) 2020 Yubico AB. All rights reserved.
.\" Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style
.\" license that can be found in the LICENSE file.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: December 14 2020 $
.Dt FIDO_BLOB_NEW 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm fido_blob_new ,
.Nm fido_blob_free ,
.Nm fido_blob_ptr ,
.Nm fido_blob_len ,
.Nm fido_blob_set ,
.Nm fido_blob_append
.Nd FIDO 2 blob API
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In fido.h
.Ft fido_blob_t *
.Fn fido_blob_new "void"
.Ft void
.Fn fido_blob_free "fido_blob_t **blob_p"
.Ft const unsigned char
.Fn fido_blob_ptr "const fido_blob_t *blob"
.Ft size_t
.Fn fido_blob_len "const fido_blob_t *blob"
.Ft int
.Fn fido_blob_set "fido_blob_t *blob" "const unsigned char *ptr" "size_t len"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The functions described in this page allow a
.Vt fido_blob_t
type to be allocated, deallocated, modified, and inspected.
.Pp
The
.Fn fido_blob_new
function returns a pointer to a newly allocated, empty
.Vt fido_blob_t
type.
If memory cannot be allocated, NULL is returned.
.Pp
The
.Fn fido_blob_free
function releases the memory backing
.Fa *blob_p ,
where
.Fa *blob_p
must have been previously allocated by
.Fn fido_blob_new .
On return,
.Fa *blob_p
is set to NULL.
Either
.Fa blob_p
or
.Fa *blob_p
may be NULL, in which case
.Fn fido_blob_free
is a NOP.
.Pp
The
.Fn fido_blob_ptr
function returns a pointer to the buffer contained in
.Fa blob
or NULL if the blob is empty.
.Pp
The
.Fn fido_blob_len
function returns the length of the buffer contained in
.Fa blob
or zero if the blob is empty.
.Pp
The
.Fn fido_blob_set
function sets
.Fa blob
to the buffer pointed to by
.Fa ptr ,
which must be an addressable pointer to a buffer of
.Fa len
bytes.
The contents of
.Fa ptr
is copied, and no reference to the passed pointer is kept.
If
.Fa blob
was not previously empty, its contents is first removed.
On success,
.Fn fido_blob_set
returns
.Dv FIDO_OK .
.Pp
The
.Fn fido_blob_append
function appends data to
.Fa blob .
The data is copied from
.Fa ptr ,
which must be an addressable pointer to a buffer of
.Fa len
bytes.
No reference to the passed pointer is kept.
On success,
.Fn fido_blob_set
returns
.Dv FIDO_OK .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr fido_dev_large_blob_get 3
