.\" Copyright (c) 2026 Yubico AB. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\"    1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"    2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"       the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"       distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-2-Clause
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: Mar 09 2026 $
.Dt FIDO_DEV_GET_PUAT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm fido_dev_get_puat ,
.Nm fido_dev_set_puat ,
.Nm fido_dev_puat_ptr ,
.Nm fido_dev_puat_len
.Nd FIDO2 PIN/UV Auth token management functions
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In fido.h
.Ft int
.Fn fido_dev_get_puat "fido_dev_t *dev" "unsigned int perm" "const char *rpid" "const char *pin"
.Ft int
.Fn fido_dev_set_puat "fido_dev_t *dev" "const unsigned char *ptr" "size_t len"
.Ft const unsigned char *
.Fn fido_dev_puat_ptr "const fido_dev_t *dev"
.Ft size_t
.Fn fido_dev_puat_len "const fido_dev_t *dev"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn fido_dev_get_puat
negotiates a FIDO2 PIN/UV Auth token with the permission bitmask specified by
.Fa perm
and associates it with
.Fa dev .
If
.Fa perm
does not require specifying a relying party ID,
.Fa rpid
may be NULL.
Otherwise
.Fa rpid
must point to a NUL-terminated UTF-8 string.
If a PIN is not needed to authenticate against
.Fa dev ,
then
.Fa pin
may be NULL.
Otherwise
.Fa pin
must point to a NUL-terminated UTF-8 string.
Supported flags for
.Fa perm
are
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Dv FIDO_PUAT_MAKECRED
Permission for
.Fn fido_dev_make_cred .
An
.Fa rpid
is required.
.It Dv FIDO_PUAT_GETASSERT
Permission for
.Fn fido_dev_get_assert .
An
.Fa rpid
is required.
.It Dv FIDO_PUAT_CREDMAN
Permission for the credential management API.
An
.Fa rpid
is optional.
.It Dv FIDO_PUAT_BIOENROLL
Permission for the biometric enrollment API.
The
.Fa rpid
is ignored.
.It Dv FIDO_PUAT_LARGEBLOB
Permission for the large blobs API.
The
.Fa rpid
is ignored.
.It Dv FIDO_PUAT_CONFIG
Permission for the authenticator config API.
The
.Fa rpid
is ignored.
.It Dv FIDO_PUAT_CREDMAN_RO
Persistent read-only permission for the credential management API.
The
.Fa rpid
is ignored.
.El
.Pp
The
.Fn fido_dev_set_puat
function can be used to associate a token retrieved out-of-band with
.Fa dev .
No references to
.Fa ptr
are kept.
If
.Fa ptr
is NULL or
.Fa len
is zero, the token is cleared from
.Fa dev .
.Pp
The
.Fn fido_dev_puat_ptr
function returns a pointer to the PIN/UV Auth token currently associated with
.Fa dev .
The corresponding length can be obtained by calling
.Fn fido_dev_puat_len .
.Pp
Associating a token with
.Fa dev
has the main benefit of reducing the user interaction to a minimum in
a sequence of operations where each would require some form of UV.
Likewise, if multiple operations in a sequence need to be authenticated by a
PIN, using a token avoids the need of caching the PIN for the duration of the
whole sequence.
.Pp
Once a token is associated with
.Fa dev ,
it will take precedence over the regular PIN/UV Authentication for all
operations that support the use of a token, until it is cleared from
.Fa dev .
The validity of the token is determined by the authenticator;
it may expire and its permissions may be affected by its use.
An invalid token is not automatically cleared from
.Fa dev .
.Pp
For further details on token semantics, please refer to the FIDO Client
to Authenticator Protocol (CTAP) standard.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
On success,
.Fn fido_dev_get_puat
and
.Fn fido_dev_set_puat
return
.Dv FIDO_OK .
On error, a different error code defined in
.In fido/err.h
is returned.
.Pp
.Fn fido_dev_puat_ptr
may return NULL if there is no PIN/UV Auth token associated with
.Fa dev .
If not NULL, the returned pointer is guaranteed to exist until either
.Fn fido_dev_get_puat
.Fn fido_dev_set_puat ,
or
.Fn fido_dev_free
is invoked.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr fido_dev_new 3
